# Minutes from July meeting (12/07/2017)

**Facilitator:** Mavis (@m4v1s)

**Time Keeper:** Vered

**Mood Monitor:** Reem

**Attendance/vote taker:** Matt King

## Attendance
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/16VIwmZ0O6sTLOi4r1jzKob9cxuihLZRvI7pAXjuqffw/edit

---

## Agenda

1. New members: [link](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-membership/pulls)
1. Hiring Process: [link](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/international/issues/80) (has been passed by London, needs to be passed by Nazareth to be used here)
1. Expectations of commitment in student agreement #165 
1. Centralising issues in `nazareth-programme` #180
1. FACN3 selection panel- [link](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/selection-committee/issues/69)
1. Forming a nonprofit legal entity in Israel #167 
1. T-shirt sizes: [link](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/158)


### New members
Rebecca: there aren't any at the moment, kept on the agenda for future reference.
Vered: by members, people who can vote?
Rebecca: yes, check the membership repo

### Hiring Process
Rebecca: passed in London last week
Rebecca: came up as a result of a meeting in London a couple of weeks ago
Rebecca goes through the proposal, clarifies that although we don't really have the funds right now in Nazareth, we want a process there for the future.

Mavis: If cross-campus role, would it be necessary to be passed at all campuses?
Rebecca: Good question, probably to be sorted by trustees

Lubes: is 'available' budget all our money or...?
Rebecca: mostly the finance side is related to local factors etc.
Lubes: how is the hiring budget decided?
Rebecca: go to Nazareth money, plans how we plan to allocate funds from a grant if we get it, with priority. There is a group of people with control of budgeting money, currently Rebecca and Dan. If you want to be a part of it, let yourself be known.

Lee: duration of role, should it be clarified
Rebecca: yes, should definitely be clarified, adding as a comment

Votes: 8/2/0 PASSED!!!

### Expectations of commitment in student agreement
Dan goes through the issue, says Rebecca was proposing a task group
Rebecca: useful for those interested to get together before interviews, july 26/27, to discuss how we get across the level of commitment required.
Rebecca: anyone with thoughts, please get in touch, it's an important topic.

### Centralising issues in `nazareth-programme`
Mavis: reads the issue
Rebecca: clarifies why we did it in the first place, because of lack of organisation in London programme repo (no labels), now labels have been introduced successfully in London, and it seems like a good idea for Nazareth.
Rebecca: take a straw poll, don't feel this is a big enough issue to be a proposal. Straw poll?
Some people are in favour, others don't care much, Joudy didn't hear half of it.
Joudy: I don't trust those who label issues. It's easier to just block it.
Mavis: that's not the way we work.
Rebecca: I'm happy to raise this as a formal proposal for next meeting.

### FACN3 selection panel
Rebecca: goes through issue.
Suha: is it 23/24? if so I'm only available one day.
Rebecca: Should only be one day. Suggests drawing straws if more people interested. Asking for any others interested?
Lubes: potentially.
Rebecca: maybe one more date in late August.
Dan: quite a big commitment- maybe 1.5 days

### Forming a nonprofit legal entity in Israel
Rebecca: this is preliminary (we looks at the issue)
Rebecca: amount of work required for founding members is unclear.
Rebecca: we've always planned for Nazareth to be run (in a legal sense) by alumni, like London

### T-shirt sizes
Stefano: How much?
Rebecca: free!
Stefano: deadline?
Rebecca: end of this week so someone can bring out.

