# nazareth business meeting 9/8/17

taking attendance: yvonne
taking minutes: matt lubel
timekeeper: suha + vered

We start by going over the way to become a member/associate member, which is documented in nazareth-membership repo.

We see the current list of members.

It is remarked that only 4 people present are eligible to vote! (and we have a fairly healthy attendance).

## Agenda

### Centralising issues
Rebecca: passed in London last week to close london-curriculum
Rebecca: may not be at a stage to have effective sub-committees in Nazareth
Rebecca: [reads the proposal, asks for questions]
Lubes: less-visible because fewer watchers?
Dan: yes, exactly
Rebecca: it would be useful to look at London's PR for a contributing.md
Zooey: in the how, there are lots of tasks, __who__ would be undertaking the tasks?

**AP: Yvonne to help Rebecca**

Let's vote... 

### Nazareth Student Commitment
Rebecca: This is not in the format of a proposal, it is an draft, but we are proposing that we adopt it.
King: [reads the draft]
Joudy: who do we actually work with in Nazareth? Do we have a list of partners.
Rebecca: we do not have official employment partners yet.
Zooey: I would amend "do not charge fees upfront" to "do not charge fees upfront or otherwise"
Zooey: Clarification on "Professionalism" section, would suggest adding more specificity about being expected to arrive on time.
[We make some small amendments]
Lee: questions why we don't specify suggested donation on student agreement
Rebecca: we decided at AGM to remove it
Lee: how long are people expected to mentor?
Rebecca: 2 weeks of the following course, [adds it to the doc]
Lee: FAC should be clear about its commitment to the students, what does FAC provide for mentors? e.g. free accommodation? Might it be good to list it here?
Rebecca: suggests this documentation be put together separately, suggests make an issue
Lee: agrees, wants a link in this document
Rebecca: disagrees, since the document doesn't exist yet, include it in the issue
Shireen: put in the master reference, so it's public

**AP: put this in the master reference, link to it in Nazareth-programme**

Joudy: we should be more explicit about the fees, students do have to pay for accommodation
[we make changes]
[we vote, with a minor hiccup]

### Associate membership (discussion)
Rebecca gives a brief history. There was a discussion previously and it was tabled.
We need a process by which we can adopt associate members
Rebecca: we need a couple of people to produce a proposal for next time
Shireen: will do it with Lee, also Vered and King

**AP: King, Lee, Shireen, Amy and Vered will add their names to membership committee and produce proposal. Shireen will organise joint discussion with others in London.**

### Update on Visas
We need to be 'certified' by the ministry as an official host
They will inspect the classroom and the guesthouse
Rebecca will get a thorough update tomorrow.
Rebecca recommends, for internationals, exiting and re-entering as a tourist, just to be sure.

[meeting adjourned]
