# Nazareth October Business Meeting

**Date:** 11/10/17

**Attendance:**
+ Lubes (hangouts)
+ Rebecca (hangouts)
+ Suha (hangouts)
+ Yvonne (hangouts)
+ Judy
+ Mavis
+ Sajeda
+ Katia
+ Lee
+ Vered
+ Heather
+ King
+ Jack

**Facilitator:** Mavis

**Note taker:** King

## Agenda

- **Announcement:** FACN3 Facilitator
- [Adding members to the members register](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-membership/pulls)
- [Graduate roles](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-money/issues/23)
- Proposal: Guidelines for Mentors in C4E [#284](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/284)
- Proposal: Talks/workshops at C4E [#285](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/285)
- Proposal: C4E cancellation protocol [#286](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/286)
- Discussion: Coding for Everyone in Technion [#282](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/282)
- Discussion: [Business Development](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/issues/645)
- FACN4 recruitment

## Discussion

#### Announcement FACN3 Course Facilitator
+ Rebecca - Shireen is the CF
+ Rebecca - update about FACN3 - 14 students (8 local, 6 international)

#### Members

#### [Graduate roles](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-money/issues/23)
+ Rebecca - apologises for late notice, only discussed with the NCTA yesterday. Wanted to be sure before communicating to the community. The issue is how we are going to provide sufficient support to the programme. Nazareth can't depend on all students staying in the space after the end. Need to ensure course is stable and graduates have the ability to stay on after and develop.
+ Mavis - people may have questions. Is it a good idea to run through a quickly.
+ King - are these roles set in stone?
+ Rebecca - these rules are part of a budget with the NCTA. If there are specific changes may be done in future.

_Jack joins_

+ Rebecca - people who graduate from the programme can develop and are supported financially.
+ Rebecca - we haven't received a contract from Taawon. NCTA authorises us to hire for first 4 weeks. Contracts will be renewed after 4 weeks on receiving funding.

_Rebecca reads through issue summarising the roles._

+ Rebecca - any questions?
+ Judy - 'if members of FAC Nazareth are interested in helping @sofer and @rebeccaradding with future budgeting and financial planning, please let us know!', what does this mean? Who can get involved?
+ Rebecca - what I mean to do is to be transparent about how the budget is being produced. Thus far is solely myself and Dan, on the basis of feedback.
+ Mavis - if they want to get involved get in contact with you?
+ Rebecca - happy to have more input from community and increase transparency.
+ Mavis - there is a chance we will have upwards of 6 people getting some sort of payment. Who is in charge? Who is monitoring these people?
+ Rebecca - graduate inters/volunteers/visiting mentors accountable to the CF, who is accountable to FCI. Grad developer is accountable to lead developer who is accountable to the product owner.
+ Mavis - do we need to update the CF role?
+ Rebecca - the description is more general and more about managing mentors. **Good action point to update the language of the CF description.**
+ Lee - who makes the decisions about hiring? Will the community in Nazareth have any say in the hire?
+ Rebecca - at this time, decisions about hiring are made by the outgoing and incoming CF and someone from FCI. Lead developer by the international management team.
+ Lee - to clarify, how long are some of these roles hired for?
+ Rebecca - right now we know we can hire for a month. Roles can be extended. Graduate interns/volunteers it says up to 16 weeks. Developer roles depend on the projects.

**Who is going to evaluate these people? What is the evaluation criteria?**

+ Lee - Will the community in Nazareth have any say in the hire?
+ Rebecca - wouldn't want current cohort involved in hiring each other. Evaluation panel of outgoing and incoming CF and someone from FCI. In the absence of this other community members.
+ Rebecca - client and FCI will hire this. Dan has more details. Unrelated to operation of the course.
+ Mavis - devloper roles are **not** related to course operation but may be around for office hours and other support.
+ Rebecca - any other formulation for selection panel?
+ Lee - volunteer mentors from previous cohort as these people know the applicants.
+ Rebecca - don't want to ask too much of volunteer mentors.
+ Mavis - core group as previously stated and other mentors could join.
+ Rebecca - CF should have this information about current students (people applying) even if not first hand experience.
+ Mavis - when are these formulations beinng decided?
+ Rebecca - grad intern/volunteer - selection process was most unclear and who they are accountable to.
+ Mavis - in terms of hiring panel?
+ Rebecca - minimal hiring panel as mentioned before, with mentors with minimum of 4 weeks experience in previous cohort are invited to join.
+ Vered - a lot of future graduates won't have anything to do? What about the rest of the people? Apply for positions instead of volunteering?
+ Rebecca - after FACN3/4 imagine the community will hire 4 people instead of 2 to work on projects and mentor. If the rest of the graduates aren't employable then we are doing something wrong. These roles are for people passionate about the community for possibly 8-16 weeks. The funding is to allow people to stay without financial burden.
+ Vered - would two weeks mentoring would have zero payment?
+ Rebecca - this role is to form a team who are fully engaged in the development of the programme.
+ Mavis - to put in context the idea for graduates is to do a week of mentoring and some code reviewing. The difference in Nazareth is that this hasn't happened as the majority of people are leaving. This has resulted in people staying for longer and being more involved than first thought. This removes the financial loss. We will hire the best people who can stick around and the rest are welcome to stick around.
+ Rebecca - regarding applying - to give clarity about how to stay engaged after the course. This application process gives us a better understanding of knowing the course can be supported.
+ King - wording of the job roles - mentioning Arabs specifically.
+ Rebecca - mission of the programme. The funding we are going to receive and they clearly stipulate the funding should be used to support the develop the Arab community in Israel. From our side that means the Jewish Israelis will be paid out of FAC London. It does not affect who can apply.
+ Vered - will it affect who is going to be hired?
+ Rebecca - it won't affect who will be hired if there aren't enough applicants.
+ Lee - FACs mission is developing Arab society, but also founded on equality and non-discrimination. Conflict of interests here.
+ Rebecca - we can't operate without the funding.
+ Mavis - argument could be made that the money doesn't have to go to Arabs but could still be benefiting Arab society.
+ Rebecca - priority to Arabs but still open to international and Jewish Israelis. How do we uphold our values while accepting funding with limitations? We don't have any other funding sources at this current time.
+ Mavis - out of time on this issue.

#### Guidelines for Mentors in C4E [#284](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/284)

+ Vered - summarises - create guidelines for people running C4E. Mentors don't know what they are doing in the event. Created a few bullet points of what should be included in the guidelines.
+ Mavis - questions asked on the issue. Rebecca asked about how people hear about the event. King answered this appropriately. Lubes points - what does involving the community mean? More than two mentors running the meetup? If this passes a markdown file should be created.
+ Vered - make C4E event more organised so the community cares about the event more.
+ Mavis - don't mean more people running the event.
+ Vered - people from FAC see opportunity to come and join the event not just the people in charge.
+ Vered - still two people in charge. Possibly two people in charge from biz dev.
+ Mavis - create markdown on `nazareth-programme` on how to run meetups and have a hard copy in the classroom.
+ King - who creates the file?
+ Mavis - the people who wrote the proposal.
+ Sajeda - we are working on the marketing proposals.
+ Mavis - raise an issue about who you are reaching out to.
+ Mavis - ready to vote?

**Proposal passes** :tada:

**AP - King, Vered, Lee, Suha and Katia create markdown file with guidelines**


#### Talks/workshops at C4E [#285](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/285)

+ Vered - make C4E more interesting by adding more value to the event by adding talks. Biz dev team to organise the talks.
+ Vered - comments - Lee suggested time change for the talks to start of event.
+ Vered - we spoke to people in person. Give a few weeeks with the guidelines and see how FACN3 take on C4E. After a few weeks hopefully attendance will pick up.
+ Mavis - are we tabling the proposal?
+ Vered - maybe move it on to the next business meeting?
+ Lee - we can vote now and let the biz dev team decide.
+ Vered - some people might block.
+ Mavis - protocol?
+ Rebecca - welcome to delay.
+ Vered - we are not ready for a vote.
+ Mavis - following Kings comment we are moving this to November business meeting.

**AP - move proposal to next business meeting**

#### C4E cancellation protocol [#286](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/286)

+ Vered - me again! Hey! We weren't here a while ago and didn't cancel it and several people came. Create a clear protocol for cancelling. Posts on Facebook, send email, notify on gitter and sign on classroom door.
+ Mavis - are we going to add this to the how to run a meetup guidelines markdown on 'nazareth-programme'
+ Mavis - any questions? Lets vote.

**Proposal passes** :tada:

**AP - add cancellation protocol to guidelines**

#### Coding for Everyone in Technion [#282](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/282)

+ Sajeda - met prof at the technion and offered Q&A: he agreed to give a room and a budget if we provide content; after research, there is an event for women coders at the university but we prefer to have a broader meeting; we could hold C4E every week or two at the technion. Mario, Shireen, Katia and myself could be responsible for this. In order to stengthen the branch in Nazareth.
+ Mavis - are we committed?
+ Sajeda - no.
+ Mavis - Shireen said do we have confirmation yet.
+ Sajeda - we need to finalise with Technion.
+ Sajeda - we are committed after he offered a room and a budget.
+ Mavis - if yourself, Shireen, Katia and Mario want to go and do it. You should do this but you need to actually do it.
+ Vered - I think we can't expect the students or mentors in FACN3 on a regular basis. Thursday evening most people won't want to do this.
+ Sajeda - will raise a new issue as a proposal.
+ Rebecca - be mindful of capacity. Where do you want to put the energy? Don't overextend.
+ Lubes - is this similar to C4E in Naz _or_ delivering content?
+ Sajeda - initially the same as C4E.
+ Katia - tell people about the course.
+ Sajeda - Nazareth C4E more attractive after running it at Technion.
+ Lubes - just ensure the person you are talking to knows what we are giving them.
+ Sajeda - confirmation email then discuss budget.
+ Mavis - why does he think we need a budget?
+ Sajeda - the budget is for the room in Technion.
+ Mavis - just need to make sure we know what we are offering him.
+ Sajeda - will clarify what we are offering.
+ Mavis - bring this up at Novermber business meeting

**AP - Sajeda will make this into a proposal for November business meeting**

#### Business Development

+ Mavis - sorry I put this in when the agenda was smaller.
+ Mavis - idea was Shireen might have some input on this. Mentors should think about how we want to move biz dev forward.
+ Rebecca - suggest putting aside a bit of time to discuss this.
+ Mavis - have discussion next week with Shireen.

**AP - put aside some time next week to discuss biz dev for FACN3**

#### Graduate roles - related to first discussion

+ Rebecca - one quick point about personnel in Nazareth. Just posted a comment on the issue. Thanks for the comments and questions. Myself and Dan shaped this document after discussing with members of the community and hadn't thought of them as paid roles until recently. We knew we had more funding money only a week ago. Once we knew this we thought about how we could use this funding to support the programme. We maybe haven't had quite enough discussion to move forward with hiring yet. FACN3 starts very soon so we should reconvene within a week to ensure the decisions are being made with everyone involved.
+ Mavis - what does follow up look like? Discuss on issue or just in next meeting? Aim of outcome?
+ Rebecca - doesn't see significant restructure but if there are roles that need changing slightly with input from the community. Separate out these roles into the hiring process. Budget for the first time and the community should be involved. Roles need to be approved by the community.
+ Vered - when will the applications open?
+ Rebecca - discussion to define roles, aware of the time frame. More specific description after the funding has been released.
+ Mavis - so this should follow the standard hiring process?
+ Rebecca - Nazareth isn't generating its own income. We can't allocate budget to roles they have to be approved by funder. Some of these roles need to be better formulated on community needs. We need community consensus about these roles specifically for the roles directly supporting the process.
+ Mavis - can see need for discussion.
+ King - very late for people to be applying if the meeting was a week from today.
+ Rebecca - we need consensus but also understand the urgency.
+ Mavis - could find time. Sunday meeting? Raise questions on issues beforehand and if Dan can be involved as well?
+ Rebecca - what time on Sunday? Monday might be better?
+ Mavis - Monday 5pm discussion about roles supporting the programme.

**AP - meeting 16/10/2017 5pm**

#### FACN4 recruitment

+ Rebecca - applications are open for FACN4. If talking to people be aware of the deadline **November 15th**. Probably keep open for local students for another month. All make yourself aware of this.
