# Nazareth December Business Meeting

**Date:** 13/12/17

**Attendance:**

* Mario
* Sophia
* Nick
* Ghassan
* Katia
* Shireen
* Neil
* Vered
* Idan
* Eoin
* Amir
* Finn
* Esraa (hangouts)
* Joudy (hangouts)
* Yvonne (hangouts)
* Dan (hangouts)
* Suha (hangouts)

**Facilitator:** Shireen

**Note taker:** King

## Agenda

* Adding new members
* Updates from NCTA + FCN + FCI meeting on December 9, 2017
* FACN4 Application feedback @veredrec @matthewdking @esraajb
* Holiday party at the UK Ambassador's #375
* TSADIK Fellowship Program update, if any #376

## Discussion

### Updates from NCTA + FCN + FCI meeting on December 9, 2017

* Dan - we are aiming for a FACN4 start of April.
* Dan - Taawoon funding is coming in first part this month ~ $30,000 fingers crossed.
* Dan - NCTA stopping volunteer visas due to difficulties maintaining this, looking into student visas. Internationals on tourist visas for 12 weeks with a possiblility to do an extension.
* Dan - FACN4 8 **strong** local students and 4 international students
* Dan - projects are a separate pot of money and will continue to be funded so long as Waleed is interested and serious about these projects.
* Yvonne - Waleed willing to bridge the gap if Tawoon funds don't come through in a timely manner. FCI will invoice when appropriate.
* Idan - why is student visa stuck? Is there any way for us to help with these problems?
* Yvonne - NCTA is not recognised as an academic institution and are looking to partner with another local institution.
* Dan - approach NCTA if you have any solutions or advice.
* Yvonne - got through Esraa with this and Esraa can bring it to the NCTA.
* Idan - we can ask as a cohort to get student visas.
* Yvonne - we can pass information in issue #388 to Nazareth partners.

**AP - pass on information in issue #388 to NCTA**

### Adding new members

### FACN4 Application feedback @veredrec @matthewdking @esraajb

* King - haven't had a chance yet. Sorry.
* Vered - can do it at the weekend.
* Shireen - agree on one day? Anything to add Esraa?
* King - we will do this at the weekend and let you know Yvonne
* Yvonne - pass details on to Esraa for those we need to contact

**AP - King and Vered will do this at the weekend**

### Holiday party at the UK Ambassador's #375

* Yvonne - curious if you need help with preparation?
* Shireen - timetable - Myself and Eoin will present FAC, Mynah and Hasan will present as students. Tables of projects, plus Path 18 and UKITH project.
* Yvonne - few days before will send out a list of people who have RSVP. Everyone take ID.
* King - is there a dress code?
* Yvonne - casual/smart?
* King - smart/casual
* Yvonne - casual business, button down shirt.
* Vered - we have a bus?
* Yvonne - correct
* Yvonne - please get business cards and pass them on to me

### TSADIK Fellowship Program update, if any #376

* Shireen - reads issue
* Shireen - come up with idea and work with a company about it. Idea from Sajeda and project to help people with disabilities such as EasyNaz.
* Vered - who applies?
* Shireen - Sajeda will pass details to Yvonne and Dan who will apply.
* Eoin - deadline?
* Shireen - December 31st
* Dan - we will work out logisitics but someone from Nazareth need to apply.
* Yvonne - can we have more than one person on the application?
* Shireen - unsure we should check.
