# September Business meeting

- Facilitators: @suuuuha & @mattking
- Minute taker: @m4v15
- Time keeper: Vered
- Mood-moniter, Vote-counter: @shiryz

## New Members

- Mario, Vered, King are added to the register

## Bridge Funding
- https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-money/issues/22 was explained by rebecca
- No questions
- If anything comes up, please leave an issue on the above issue
- Internet connectivity has been bad recently, this will be brought up with the NCTA

## Nazareth-programme STILL PRIVATE
https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/262
- Yvonne: A lot of issues are about mentors travels in and out of the country and other personal details. She raised this with rebecca.
- Rebecca: goal in the end to have most things mostly public, some repos are not. There has been a push to make it more public.
- (cont): due to this shireen and rebecca made naz repo public
- due to what yvonne said we have actually gone back to making it private. 
- Dan and Rebecca have come to the conclusion that no programme repo needs to be public
- Should be documentation around what repos should be public and which should be private 
- Issue was closed

## Public Holidays in Israel
https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/264
- Mavis summarised this issue
- Shireen: too many holidays with 3 religions to take them all
- Vered: We should ask students which holidays are most important
- Rebecca: When do we ask students week1?
- discussion around this - before that via email, or in a biz meeting
- Shireen: Or we decide right now?
- Some holidays are more important than others
- Mavis: we should decide on a set days FACN take
- Suha: but some people ahve different idea
- Rebecca: 2 steps. A group of people should get together and mark off days we will definitely take of (the more important holidays). Second step in the first week of the cohort we ask teh students if they have specific ideas
- Vered, Suha, Sajeda and Katia volunteer to take part in the first step

- Another issue, how long should reading week be in FACN3
- Dan has suggested 1 week for FACN3 as 2 weeks maybe doesn't affect israel so much
- Shireen: Will we have some sort of exchange between London and Nazareth - and how will it work with them running simultaneasly.
- Dan: If your question is what is the benefit? He and rebecca can be around in the same weeks for mulitple campuses
- Mavis: International mentors probably don't want to be here for December 31-Jan6 week
- AP: Calendar group will make a proposal for the next business meeting which will be brought to October Biz meeting

## FACN2 weeks 13-16
https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/270

- Dan: Summarises issue, says it's following FACN1 roughly. Digital Lab will be education themed accelerator aimed at helping Palestinians coming out of education.
- Rebecca: We will soon be able to confirm funding for the Digital lab projects
- Dan will be in Nazareth on 25th

- https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/261 Dan also spoke about this issue
- Rebecca: If you think we should invite people, let us know
- Dan: Something about dog food? (i.e. we could be encouraging school leavers to get involved with FAC (I think?))

## Proposal: Nazareth course facilitator 
https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/255
- Rebecca Sumarizes issues
- In reference to the comments, part time commitment:
    - Dan: We want this to be a part time role and also a temporary role
    - We also realise this might not be 100% possible in Nazareth
    - We are looking into 4 week rotations of experienced mentors who would come out and support the facilitator
- Dan: Comment that we recognize that that is an ambitious job description for 20 hours a week
- Rebecca: requires someone who can delegate and time amnage
- Lubes: What's the bit about FAC helping them find work after the course
- D+R: Its about FAC helping the person ensure that the person is adaquetelty supported after the course and their professional development is not stalled (ideal it could even help)
- Dan: The jobs could take the form of whatever the person in the role could help (within the limits of FAC abilities to help)
- Mavis: Does the application for FACN2 include a week afterwards 
- D+R: Yes we will change the application
- Mavis: What if no one applies?
- D+R: we will split it up into smaller chunks and try and find out why not

- Vote Passes **Unanimously** :tada: 

## 4 week volunteers in Naz (added to agenda during the meeting)
https://github.com/foundersandcoders/international/issues/125
- Dan asks what people think about this.
- Mavis: Only 1 person per 4 weeks?
- Dan: Unsure yet, depends on funding for projects. People who are already in Nazareth would have other opportunities so would hopefully also be there. Depends on the number of people in the space at the time
- Dan: The people coming out would be commiting 20hrs per/week and the CF would decide where they are needed most
- Shireen: What are the criteria and when does the funding coming in?
- Rebecca: same as this application but amended slightly (https://github.com/foundersandcoders/international/blob/master/middle-east-tour.md). Funding will be confirmed soon, will be the same pay as in that doc.
- Lubes: How does this change for Israeli citizens?
- Dan: We could pay them differently as we wouldn't have to buy their flights
- Rebecca: We're hoping for more experienced volunteers
- Mavis: Why should we pay locals more? I understand the algebra but not the reason
- Dan: Israeli citizens can only be paid minimum

- No one seems to have a problem with this idea

- D+R will be reviewing the application shortly.
