# Nazareth November Business Meeting

**Date:** 08/11/17

**Attendance:**

+ Rebecca (hangouts)
+ Suha (hangouts)
+ Yvonne (hangouts)
+ Sajeda (hangouts)
+ Finn (hangouts)
+ Katia
+ Vered
+ Lee
+ Sami
+ Shireen
+ Haitham
+ Nick
+ Niel
+ King
+ Idan
+ Judy
+ Amir
+ Mario

**Facilitator:** Matt King

**Note taker:** Nick Peal

## Agenda

- New members
- Financial update
- Advertising for FACN4 #312
- Adopting a set of core values #315
- Proposal: Talks / Workshops at Coding for Everyone #285, #282
- C4E marketing discussion #343

## Discussion


#### New Members
+ Vered discusses the different classes of members (voting vs non-voting)
+ King - Katia, Yvonne, Stefano and Sajeda

#### Financial update
+ Rebecca - Yvonne is doing her best to update, but has yet to get a full update from our financial partners. Will update when this has happened

**AP - Yvonne will update on this once she has all the information**


#### Advertising for FACN4 [#312](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/312)
+ Rebecca - Aware this is a business meeting and its focus is to discuss and vote on proposals. However, Rebecca wants to bring to everyones attention that applications are now open for FACN4, and wanted to open up a discussion about what FACN3 can do to spread the word about the opportunity. Referral candidates and local advertising.
Q - Do we have any funding for getting posters made?
A - Rebecca - yes potentially, but suggests for the moment that as access to funding has yet to happen (the money is there though) to not do this.
+ Mario - saying that we are getting conflicting information between what is being said by Tariq vs what is being said by Rebecca in relation to getting cash released.
+ Lee -  questions about why money has yet to come
+ Rebecca - Says to focus on non-funding activities as success on getting funding through is not coming forward. The program is due to start in March and it takes times to prepare. Looking forward to get international students onboard as mentors, but we don't have a program without recruiting local student to the cohort.
+ Idan - proposing that one option was to do a meetup in Haifa. Says that other such meetups are very popular - suggest a media/advertising drive locally (in Haifa) in order to show what is available.
+ Rebecca - any opportunity available to get ourselves in front of people is to be sought. If you have time to represent F&C in the community, you are to go ahead and do it without approval
+ Katia - thinking we should look at CFE in Technion

**AP - Idan will put together a spreadsheet to list local meetups and assigned F&C members who have hosted**

#### Adopting a set of core values [#315](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/315)
+ Rebecca - F&C London has for years had a sense of their values, but has yet to put anything on paper. Recently, Dan, Rebecca etc and F&C International (soon to get charity status), sat down to get a starting point for core values globally. Whilst F&C Int'l dont want to push this locally, they want to say that they are available and can be adopted and or amended. The same goes for the campus mission statement.

**AP - Decided to deal with this at the end of the meeting or setup another time to discuss - Matt, Vered, Lee, Shireen, Katia, Suha, Sajeda**


#### Proposal: Talks / Workshops at Coding for Everyone [#285](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/285), [#282](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/282)
+ Vered - an idea we setup at the end of FACN2 - about setting up workshops at the end of CFE. At the moment, attendance is the biggest factor - we need to focus on getting people coming consistently. This is a proposal at this point.
+ King - leave open as a discussion?
+ Vered - Yes - leave open as a issue - and discuss again when it becomes more relevant

**AP - Leave open as an issue and to discuss when it becomes more relevant**

#### C4E marketing discussion [#343](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/343)
+ Sajeda - Wants to run with Idan's suggestion about doing something in Technion / Haifa. Talked with the VP of TEchnion who offered both a room and some budget. We needed to discuss all of the related issues - but its not going anywhere so wants to close the issue.
+ Matt King - Said that he had seen recent issues (Friday) and suggests (to Sajeda) that it was worth sharing the issues as they related to the proposal to do something at a local school
+ Sajeda - Said that St. Josephs (Nazareth) students are very keen to learn to code and part of the faculty said that we should go to the school and share our activities and do a workshop. Their is no need to make a major effort here - one international student would be enough. There will be 15-16 students.
+ Nick - asking about how the workshop is being delivered
+ Rebecca - said that they recently delivered a workshop and that they can use her resources
+ Finn - says is happy to provide support for this specific event if he is given the information
+ Suha - Asking what the date was
+ King - move on
+ Vered - like to discuss how we are going to advertise CFE. Suggested creating a team of people that want to work on it and create a plan and then bring back a more rounded/official plan about how we might move forward with this one
+ Shireen - saying that we are not sharing anything on social media (facebook etc).
+ Rebecca - said that she can allow people to post locally. Rebecca does not have the resources to do this herself currently. Has asked Yvonne to monitor content on the channel if it is decided to allow people to post.
+ Yvonne - Question about the process of posting and how it was done before.
+ Rebecca - Was reaching out to people on social media - had some success, but were best efforts. Inclined to encourage Idans suggestions to attend things locally, in person, at other events. Believes that this is a really valuable use of times
+ Matt King - happy to start contacting - suggests Idan too - to make contact with new local groups
+ Idan - yes happy to do this and believes can create a spreadsheet with all the listed meetups and which ones he can attend. The idea being that others can put their name against other locations and go from there.
+ Shireen - Asking about having a select group/checklist of groups that have contacted up or vice versa so that we don't cover the same ground twice
+ Katia  - A lot of the Facebook groups are in Arabic and putting herself forward as someone to help with these  proposals

**AP Rebecca and Yvonne to provide access to approved Facebook/Social Media posters.**

**AP Yvonne to monitor social media activity.**

**AP Idan to put together spreadsheet containing information of listed meetups and who is/can attendance**

**AP Sajeda - to get information over to all those who will be attending the St. Joseph's event**

##### Mission Statement  [#291](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-programme/issues/291)

+ Shireen suggesting use time available now to discuss core values
+ Rebecca - current values are copied over from London. Currently a discussion as to what are appropriate values in London and suggesting a 'jumping off point' for a discussion about what can be adopted in Nazareth. (See Github repository for what Rebecca then presents).
+ Vered - Says that she would switch the order of the statement. Ie that it supports the education of people from all backgrounds
+ Rebecca - We are trying to write a systemic wrong
+ Nick - Does not think the focus on race or Arab isn't perhaps the way to go.
+ Niel - It seems like it is a heavily politicised statement
+ Rebecca - says very interesting to hear peoples views on this topic - it shows that the statement needs work
+ Idan - says we can talk about discrimination all day, there are many levels of discrimination well beyond Arabs. We need to target beyond Arabs.
+ Rebecca - posting what is from London - should be less specific about changing the stakes of people in tech - is very interested about the views that are coming across.
+ Rebecca - getting near to 7:30 - do people want to reconvene, or more forward with other formats - ie over git.
+ Matt - Yeah lets perhaps re-convene and discuss again
+ Vered - Yes agreed
+ Rebecca - It would be great if those points discussed tonight could be put down on paper and then these notes/inputs from the cohort/Nazareth could be brought into a time to review the ideas over the next few weeks. Something that is better than what we have now.

**AP Discuss wording of mission statement on issue #291**

End of discussion
