# FACN4 Update Meeting minutes, 22/11/2017

*Attendees: Mavis, Yvonne, Dan, Shireen, Vered, King, Mario, Nick, Hoslack, Idan, Sophia, Neil, Pavel, Ghassan, Esraa (half way through), Joudy, Amir*

**Agenda (not followed in order):**
1. NCTA is settling backlog of student payments with FACN2, and setting up for FACN3
2. ‎emails are being sent today for FACN4 international applicants 
3. ‎we are giving our partners end of November to decide next step for FACN4
4. ‎NCTA liasion role? 
5. Expression of Interest form
6. ‎Students outreach update

*Yvonne gives updates about points 1-3*

King: What are we telling international students

Yvonne: *reads out email - roughly:* Thankyou for aplying to FACN4, due to unforeseen circumstances we are postponing interviews and likely, but not definitely, the course

Yvonne: Email is being sent today

King: Just international?

Yvonne: Yeah

King: Won't they mention it on Nazareth c4e?

FCI: Need to give International students update for visa's. Current plan not to announce to locals until the 25th Nov

Mavis: But it still might come out on c4e gitter?

King: Should we be totally clear about the reason for telling them is because of the volunteer visa situation

Yvonne: Might not be doing volunteer visa this time anyway, causes a lot of issues

Dan: Some cost to NCTA in this. Waiting for direction from them on this.

Idan: Why not student visa?

Dan: Because we're not a registered institute

- Discussion about visa's occurs

Mavis: Still, are we happy still only telling international not others?

Yvonne: We could tell all the applicants, there aren't that many

King: I think we should, I think it would make us look better

Dan: What is everyone elses thoughts in Naz?

- Most in the room with King agree

Hoslack: My visa runs out in April, so would like to know if I will be able to mentor

Dan: We don't know if/how long we will have to postpone the course, hopefully it won't be too disruptive a length of time - we may have to some planning about different likely scenarious depending on length of postponement.

Idan: Do we have a plan for the scenarios, if we have no funding etc?

Dan: Three things: 1. Not getting funding that has been pledged. 2. Quality of applicant pool. Not strong atm. 3. Not sure on the status of international students, need clarification from NCTA on that.

King: A lot of locals seem interested but aren't skilled enough - is there something more we can do? Will require resources

Dan: certainly possible and FCI would definitely encourage this

Mavis: Big ask to train up people quick enough to be able to do the course. Dan - so are we making plans for the different scenarios?

Dan: Yes they are going to be made in the next 2 weeks

Yvonne: Posted issue about NCTA liason - esraa and Sajeda both expressed itnerest but neither are on this call. Want to stress this is the sort of call/meeting they would be expected to be at. Any question about this

Mavis: Who's doing this now? Yvonne?

Yvonne: Yeah kind of, but it's hard when I'm not physically in Naz

Dan: Also good to have an arabic speaker involved.

Dan: ATM it's a 2 way conversation: NCTA and FCI. Should be 3 way and include FAC Nazareth as well.

### Update on outreach

- 4 groups: Soc Med, Materials, Contact Expressions of Interest with emails and calls, Arrange Visits
- Each group has someone in charge
- meet once a week for updates

When do we want the liason role filled?

Dan: As soon as Nazareth can fill it.


FACN should appoint this role ASAP

Mavis: Can we appoint it on this call next week?

People can agree

Mavis: How logistically?

Dan: Can anyone right now volunteer to meet with Esraa/Sajeda a thrash out what they think would be good

Shireen: I think it's important that it's one person, we know that already. Feel it would be weird for the community to vote on it without FCI stepping in.

Vered: Let's avoid a vote, why don't FCI decide and then FACN can vote on whether they accept it.

Yvonne: I think we should move forward with Esraa doing it as he brought it up but also as Sajeda already has a seprate role within FAC Nazareth that is suited to her already and will take up her time.

Mavis: But he's not in Nazareth that much?

King: Yeah he couldn't just walk into the office much?

Mavis: Yeah but also I would say it needs someone experienced and familiar with FAC and also Nazareth - think Esraa in a way is the only candidate who could do the job well

Vered: Agrees

Dan: Can we appoint Esraa to the role, tbc at the next naz biz meeting

Shireen: Yeah, but maybe we should check Esraa can be in Naz once a week

*Esraa joins conveniently. Dan updates Esraa on the role asks what he'll do*

Esraa: Thinks he can be in Naz once every 2 weeks. Very happy to give a his time. Has time every morning to spend an hour reviewing what he needs to do

Yvonne: atm NCTA talk to everyone in Naz gets confusing, barging into classroom, not all communication gets thorugh.

Mavis: Yeah might help if he's not in Naz, anyone in Naz directs all communication to Esraa.

Esraa: Yeah should be fine.

Dan: Yvonne and Esraa should talk to the NCTA in a meeting once a fortnight.

Esraa: Expression of interest form should be ready by the beginning next week

Yvonne: Have a draft

Esraa: Sounds good.

Action Points
---

- Yvonne to send all applicants emails about possible postponement of the course.

- This will be a standing call - Weds 6pm Nazareth Time

- Esraa will take on the FAC Nazareth - NCTA liason role. Any communication (especially regarding the postponement of FACN4) between FAC Naz and the NCTA should go through Esraa

- FACN will officially confirm Esraa in the role in the next business meeting

- Yvonne will email NCTA about the appointment of Esraa
- Esraa and Yvonne will set up a fortnightly meeting with the NCTA and FCI (Yvonne) and FACN (Esraa)

