
# Mentor meeting 28-07-2017

## Week 5 Assignments

**Mentors** Maja, Jack, Lubes, Yvonne as support (maybe also reem)

### Day 1
- Intro To Node & Workshop, led @JWLD
- Error Handling @mattlub & JWLD
- @Karyum  here for Biz Dev

### Day 2
- Node Shell - Yvonne/Maja @yvonne-liu @majakudlicka
- Research, introduce porject - Yvonne/Maja @yvonne-liu @majakudlicka

### Day 3
- Build Request Module - Maja @majakudlicka

### Day 5
- SGC -  @yvonne-liu @JWLD

## Week 6 Assignments

**Mentors** @Karyum @Suuuuha @yvonne-liu

### Day 1
- Whiteboard walkthrough @Karyum, @Suuuuha @yvonne-liu
- Installation workshop ^
- Workshop and SQL commands @Karyum

### Day 2
- Intro to PG module - @mattlub @karyum
- Workshop based on it ^ & @Suuuuha
- Introduce projects - ^ & @yvonne
### Day 3
- DB morning challenge - @Suuuuha

### Day 5
- Code Review - Anyone who's around
- SGC -  @Suuuuha @Karyum

## Nazareth Course Facilitator

- relates #219
- Mavis: We need one, important for the students to have a consistent presence/point person
- Clarification we're talking a bit more about weeks 10-16 atm, but then also the role in general
- Lubes: depends who else is a around
- Suha: agrees with mavis and lubes
- Yvonne: The role requires someone who is prepared to dedicate time to these responsibilities
- Lubes: Is that important in the second half
- Zooey: Yes, when I think of London
- Lubes: It is important to have someone here the whole time, but this could it be a lead mentor, not a course facilitator per se
- Zooey: CF helps the cohort transition from students to mentors, which is more than a lead mentor. Also CF shouldn't teach, should just be there
- Lubes: What does a CF do in weeks 10-16?
- Shireen: Keeps an eye on coordinating the project groups, making sure people are doing appropriate work
- Mavis: Also helps a lot with curriculum planning
- Jen: Provide continuity between the halfs of the course, cna be point person between students and PO's, partners other campuses
- Dan: Agrees strongly, also is bringing in QA resources and project management support, make sure the PO's know what is happening. Obvious in nazareth and london that the new incoming cohort weren't that well inducted into the programme, CF can help be the introduction
- Lubes: I think it is vital now
- Shireen: Dan & Rebecca did a lot of what Dan said for FACN1
- Shireen: Seems like we agree these need to be done
- Zooey: Difference between one dedicated person and visiting mentors - if one person has a paid role they have responsibility and **accountability**, if it's split among lots, can slip through the cracks.
- Shireen: What should this role look like?
- Lubes: What Dan spoke about
- Jen summary on Gitter: > Things I think a CF should be doing:
+ coordinating mentors for [week 10](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/tree/master/coursebook/week-UX) - still a heavy emphasis on workshops here
+ unblocking problems (or coordinating mentors who provide QA & scrum master roles) that students experience during weeks 10-12
  + tech guidance
  + with "POs" (?) e.g. the data that Reem & Mohamed needed for their app - I think Esraa dealt with that?
+ coordinating mentors / mentoring for the end of week 13 (what I was doing with you guys when I came to FACN1)
+ leading retrospectives for all 6 weeks
+ running ideation sessions e.g. Tourism industry day
+ coordinating with partners and Product Owners during weeks 13-16
+ unblocking problems (or coordinating mentors who provide QA & scrum master roles) that students experience during weeks 13-16
+ collaborate closely with the Selection Panel to understand what the needs are of the next cohort coming in, communicate with them on gitter (e.g. give them the precourse), [go through the checklist](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/master-reference/blob/master/curriculum-planning/new-cohort-checklist.md)
+ running curriculum planning with mentors

Shireen: Lets talk about the first half, what should the course facilitator do in the first half?

Lubes: We did all of the roles, but didn't require loads of involvement
Mavis: Didn't require loads but needed some, I think having someone or two people accountable make sure it gets done
Lubes: I think it might not need someone to do something that people are doing now anyway
Zooey: Think these are needed because it means one person is going to do these roles, and volunteering mentors don't get burned out
Lubes: I'm just talking about the next 4 weeks, not the role in general, think it nessesary
Mavis: I felt responsible for this kind of thing, think the accountability is important
Shireen: Lets see if we can assign the mentors to these for the next 4 weeks

  - Ensuring that each week on the programme is assigned sufficient mentors who are prepared for their roles. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Identifying what support mentors need and helping them identify it. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Arranging cover in the event a week is short mentors. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Assigning mentors to code reviews. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Coordinating mentor reflection and providing targeted feedback to mentors. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Providing visiting mentors with pointers and making sure they're aware of any existing problems. **Lubes and Shireen**
  - Coordinating pastoral care and delegating as necessary. **Shireen and Suha**
  - Preparing for and participating in weekly standups with FCI team and other course facilitators. **Shireen Suha and Lubes**
  - Being present in SGCs. **Mario and Lubes**
  - Making sure that issues raised in the classroom would also be raised in the master reference. **Mario and Lubes**

- Shireen: Would a mentor SGC be good?
- Lubes: Useful, whether it would be a meeting or a document to feedback into
- Zooey: Split up course delivery and pastoral care
- Suha: Can do pastoral care round up in the meeting with Rebecca and Dan
- Shireen: Half an hour at the end of the week?
- Thursday Lunchtime or during team SGC

## SGC

- Zooey: Are the students aware of their responsibility after the course (mentors)
- Mavis: What is their responsibility?
- Dan: I think we talked about wanting people to stay on and get involved. Caution in Nazareth because we are not sure what commitment we can give people (Grad projects etc). Wouldn't be surprised if people have got mixed messages.
- Mavis: How do we address this?
- Dan: Talk to people individually - not urgent, we should wait until visa's are sorted. Visa's are also an issue atm.
- Zooey: I think it is somewhat urgent, pastoral care walks could do this.
- Suha: Agree it is urgent, also lack of locals is a concern for future cohorts
- Mavis: Hard to ask people what they want to do if we don't have options for them
- Zooey: But can get an idea if we need to get grad projects for people, or just generally an idea of the needs.
- Yvonne: In FACN1 most internationals had British citizenship to fall back on, might not be so easy in FACN2
- Dan: once we have clarity on funding and visas we can give a clearer picture

### What needs to be improved?

- We need to keep more of an eye on people, pay more attention to peoples levels
- People might not be totally honest when we ask if they're struggling

- Zooey: Would be nice for out-coming mentors to have an idea of what he was going to be doing
- Mavis: Yeah we didn't communicate this well
- Jen: this is why a hand over call might be good
- Shireen: Me and Lubes will make sure this happens

- Change teams this week
