# Meeting between NCTA, FCI, and FACN

Attendance: Waleed, Tareq, Dan, Yvonne, Esraa, Eoin, Zaher
Chair: @yvonne-liu
Minutes: @des-des

### Minutes
Y: Action points went out after last meeting 2 weeks ago.

1. __Given funding situtation W will help brige gaps__:
W: Taawon have received all paperwork, including account number and hopefully 30% we be transferred ASAP (10 days)

2. __Visas for international students__:
W: We are trying to get cooperative agreement in education institution. Has spoken to one institution. We will talk to others. They may have some conditions, we will follow up. Until end of calendar year we may not get too far.
Y: For FACN4 we will go back to tourist visa.
W: We need to apply for extension of tourist visa, for one month. Students should not leave, if they leave and cannot get back in it is their problem. They can stay in country and we will extend visa.
W: Students that want to volunteer can apply for tourist visa (2 months) but it needs to be agreed by the Ministry of the Interior
W: We should do it on trial basis for some students.
W: Either or 3 months in Nazareth and 1 month extension. 3 months here or 1 month in London. In both cases we can try to apply for volunteer. So they can come and mentor / volunteer?
D: This may not be ideal, but we can try it for one cohort (3 months in Nazareth, 1 month in London for international students)

__ACTION POINT__: Once FACN4 have started Esraa + NCTA will inquire about volunteer visas


3. __Candidate recrutment__
E: He does not have an answer from Tsofen, we should all come to the table together to discuss, we should do more than FB. There's a need for a social media campaign manager (follow up with people, content creation, etc.)
E: We need someone in charge of FACN4 recruitment for one month because the problem we have right now is not enough people reaching out.
W: The process needs to be dealt with delicately. There will be no problems. The problem is who will deal with the applications. We can do recruitment, Zaher has the time to do it. E + Z need to sit and plan together.
Z: Problem was things were only in English.
W: We need both English and Arabic
Z: There is no contact information in stuff.
Y: We can process application. We need point of contact. It will be Zaher to be the contact. NCTA phone number, they can do it.
Z: Does not want to do it (arabic)
more arabic
Y: We can write a phone script. (Eoin agrees) Then we can encourage them to come to Monday evening meeting.
__ACTION POINT__: Create documentation for all this process.
E: We have expression of interest and the Google docs shared with Z
E: We should focus on getting people to fill in expression of interest. Then I will follow up.
Y: Phone call to NCTA -> pointed towards meetup + expression of interest -> Esraa does outreach after application form.

4. Updates on the project.
Y: King and Vered can come and give demo to Serene. New database, new look and feel, more professional, animation. Better UX. Form for professor to add stuff. Are adding login!
W: I will speak to Serene about her availability. Set a time we can overview the app. Then we will have remarks to follow up with professor. We will get some professional people to come and have. Serene needs to advise on cost of getting this advice.
W: Will be separate funding for this
W: We are meeting proper people, we need to be professional
D: You will like what you see with Demo.
D: I hope next year, if we resolve recruitment and funding, then all will be good.
W: This is very very important to me. Funding for this project will be separate. We need professional, we need timelines, action plan etc. By 2019 we need to have something up and running. From our side we need good results that we can be proud of.
W: I am trusting you to insure this.
D: I understand that you want, we need patience.
__ACTION POINT__: Danâ€™s personal reassurance that this will be done properly.

Y: OTP updates
E: I will remove any blockers with Mario tomorrow.
M: Everything is pretty much done, we just need to go live.
W: Abbas should call Mario.
E: I will fix soft launch data with Mario tomorrow. For OTP+data entry+events
W: Do we want high tech events also
W: Can be any kind of event
__ACTION POINT__: Waleed waiting for date for soft launch.

Y + D are working on getting funding for international people. We have made message for UK Israel tech hub that we need funding very clear. It is up to them.
W: Waleed will meet David, who has asked for private meeting.
__ACTION POINT__: meeting is on the 20th, we should follow up with Waleed before then.
D: It is completely reasonable to suggest to David, UKITH as a partner should fund us.
W: Please give more some more direction on what has happened in the the past.
D: We have made explicit request.
__ACTION POINT__: Send Waleed that kind of info
