## 26.02.2017

#### Local schools
  Mario, Joudy:

  - The existing contact information doesn't include schools' emails.  
  - action points:
    - ask Tareq to contact the schools by phone.


 Hiba, Lawson, Reem:

  - called Seri for more information.
  - started working on the presentation.
  - action points:
    - Reem would call her teacher.
    - continue working on the presentation

#### Social media
MattL, Suha:

  - FAC's social media pages need maintenance, so that applicants would have up to date photos/ posts.
  - action points:
    - Have a weekly post and picture to post on instagram and facebook.


  Reem:

  - promote fac on university facebook groups/ psychomitry groups, these groups include a lot of people who are not sure if they want to study in university.
  - action point:
    - create a post for this specific audience to share.

#### Marketing
Edgar, MattD, Jack:

  - We need to have more information about facNaz or Nazareth in general.
  - action points:
    - working on an info page for Nazareth.
    - Create a medium article about why come to Nazareth, later on create
  another article about fac and living in nazareth.
    - create a medium article in arabic (hiba).

#### Youtube channel
Elias, Mohammad:
  - Upload short videos on youtube with subtitles in Arabic, the videos are in the style of a tutorial explaining the pre-reqs (Github, Codewars, FCC).
  - action point:
    - create an outline of the steps required to make these tutorials
  and put them in an issue.

#### Local press
Suha:

  - action point: contact Almanarah.
