# Minutes from Outreach meeting (18/06/2017)

**Facilitator:** @rebeccaradding

**Time Keeper:**

**Mood Monitor:**

**Record Keeper:** @jsms90

**Vote Taker:**

## Attendance and voting
Rebecca, Jen, Joudy, Reem, Suha, Esraa, Mario

---

## Agenda

[Communicating the new selection process](https://github.com/foundersandcoders/nazareth-outreach/issues/11)
+ [Updates to application process & an opportunity for questions](#updates-to-application-process--an-opportunity-for-questions)
  + [Action points](#action-points)
+ [Availability for running prep course](#availability-for-running-prep-course)
  + [Action point](#action-point)
+ [Outreach](#outreach)
  + [Action points](#action-points)
+ [Course Facilitation](#course-facilitation)

---

## Updates to application process & an opportunity for questions

Rebecca:
+ Any questions?

Mario:
+ Interviewing every local student? If we have 40+ applicants, are we still going to do that?

Rebecca:
+ 40 would be amazing. But we’re reducing this to 32 in London. Based on quality of application, including English level.
+ Would consider doing more interviews, rather than excluding people.
+ Dan did more in Gaza. Very successful

Esraa:
+ Translation to Arabic & Hebrew - but applicants need to have a certain level of English to be on the course anyway.

Rebecca:
+ Translating course & application information (how to apply, what is necesary before applying), because people other than applicants will see it. We want everyone to be able to find out about FAC.
+ We need applications themselves to be in English, since we’re assessing people on the quality of their language skills too.

Esraa:
+ I’m happy to translate that.

Rebecca:
+ As soon as it’s up in English, that would be great.

Esraa:
+ Early next week?

Rebecca:
+ We’ll have a google doc with the copy. You can use that for translation as soon as the English version is finalised (next couple of days).

Suha:
+ Happy to help too.

Rebecca:
+ Ideal to also have Hebrew translation.

Esraa:
+ No problem.

Rebecca:
+ Questions about process?

Esraa:
+ Interviewed as soon as they apply (in a couple of weeks)?

Rebecca:
+ That will be outlined on the website very clearly. You will be able to see the copy in the google doc and there is an open PR at the moment, with a working version.

Reads current copy **

Esraa:
+ Bit about 8-12 people is a bit confusing.

Rebecca:
+ How would you re-write it.

Mario:
+ I wouldn’t put how many people from each section of society.

Rebecca:
+ Ok. Plan to give 16 spots to locals and from outside Israel.

Esraa:
+ Saying “outside Israel, including the West Bank” is a political statement.

Rebecca:
+ Just want West Bank applicants to know they are welcome.

Esraa:
+ I can think about it.

Rebecca:
+ 16 places to a mix of local and international students. Please note that we welcome students from the West Bank.

Esraa:
+ From all over the world?

Suha:
+ That’s not clear that West Bank applicants can apply.

Rebecca:
+ If we don’t specify, they won’t apply.

Esraa:
+ Had a conversation recently with a Jewish guy, who wasn’t sure if his application was welcome. Not sure what the best way is.

Suha:
+ The translation should help.

Rebecca:
+ Agree - shows, we’re more inclusive.

Suha:
+ Worse to actively point it out.

Esraa:
+ I will try to think about something. If I come up with something that sounds more politically correct, I’ll let you know.

Rebecca:
+ Welcome to make modification in PR. We’re not wedded to this text.

Jen:
+ Please give me 24 hours to get the current google doc copy onto GitHub and then start making comments on the PR. Just so we don’t end up with multiple

Suha:
+ Assuming applicants are going to finish FCC?

Rebecca:
+ In Gaza, they’re going to select 24 people for their pre-course & offer structured support. Worried about offering conditional places in Nazareth. THinking about choosing smaller group for prep course. Everyone who completes pre-requisites. Application will continue to be open and receiving responses for the next cohort. So if we have drop outs, we still have flexibility. I’m open to making it more conditional. Which would have made you more motivated? People don’t have other opportunities in Gaza, so their motivation is high no matter what.

Suha:
+ Maybe they think that if they haven’t finished the prep course, they haven’t been accepted yet. So they still have to work hard to finish everything. Maybe it would motivate them more.

Rebecca:
+ Taking everyone who finishes. In Gaza, they’re still going to drop some people. But we’re not suggesting that for Nazareth.

Esraa:
+ People will want to do the course, not specifically because of web development. But they see it as an opportunity to get a job. If you say to them “you might get in”, but there’s a chance you won’t if you don’t finish the pre-reqs.

Rebecca:
+ Not proposing that. In Nazareth, we will interview, choose a small group who could all be successful on the course. If we pick 12, we have to be prepared to keep all 12.

Esraa:
+ Cool.

Rebecca:
+ Fill out application. You need accounts. You don’t need to have started the application.
+ Interview everyone who applies.
+ Everyone who is a hard worker, has decent English, and seems motivated, gets offered a spot on the prep course.
+ 8 week prep course. So long as they finish the pre-reqs on that course, they have a guaranteed spot. If they don’t finish it, we will see.

Esraa:
+ Sounds good. Totally agree with process.
+ Is attending the prep course mandatory or optional?

Rebecca:
+ Mandatory. Once per week.
+ We’re prepared to be flexible. If someone, like Suha, has CS background and has done pre-reqs or already has 5 kyu, maybe we give them an unconditional offer & we suggest that they come along to meet their fellow students. Don’t know if that will happen.
+ Gives us a lot more structure which allows us to be more flexible than before.
+ All been informed by what you (Esraa) have told me about the applicants.

Esraa:
+ If I could write it down, it would look like this. Great.

Reem:
+ What’s the smallest number of people you would accept onto the prep course?

Rebecca:
+ 6
+ We would just start it and look for more people who could join them.
+ Prepared to be resourceful.
+ If each of the people on this call looked for people, we’d be fine.
+ Easier sell now that the application has changed. You just need to be interested & we’ll provide you with support.
+ Not too different than what happened for you. The goal is to provide more structure

Rebecca:
+ Expect that half the people in the group don’t have much prior experience.
+ 2-3 weeks pairing on curated set of codewars challenges. Look deeply at solutions.
+ Give people structure for learning on their own, but also enable to help one another
+ More substance to personal website requirements
+ Group project at the end, possibly. Or something relating to pre-reqs.
+ The agenda for these sessions, you’d improve this by communicating with Gaza & updating this documentation in `master-reference`.
+ Completed by graduates of the course, not current students.
+ Run August - September, possibly with a break for Eid
+ Could be 1 or 2 people, and bring in someone else to mentor. Depends on who is interested and has capacity to deliver.
+ We’re waiting on funding application. Supporting mentors to do this is part of that application. We don’t have the money for it yet.
+ Questions? Interest? Availability? Questions on structure?

Mario:
+ Once in the week?

Rebecca:
+ Yes. 3 hours maybe?
+ What do you think would be enough?

Mario:
+ 4 or 5 hours?

Suha:
+ Maybe 2 days per week?

Rebecca:
+ You tell me. You know your community better than I do.
+ This won’t work if none of you are able to participate. The timing has to depend on your availability.

Reem:
+ 5 could be a bit discouraging for some students.

Joudy:
+ What about 8 hours?

Rebecca:
+ We want to prepare people to hit the ground when the intense course.

Esraa:
+ Let’s start with once per week for 4 hours. We can meet again and decide?

Reem:
+ Would you consider asking the applicants? And what they prefer to do throughout the week? Maybe if they don’t want to be there longer than 3 hours?

Rebecca:
+ On the one hand, we want this to work for applicants.
+ On the other hand, we didn’t ask you what you wanted. We couldn’t have accomplished what we accomplished with too much vague-ness.
+ We can be flexible and try to find something that works for the whole group, while we are clear.

Suha:
+ Looks more professional if we tell them what we expect.

Rebecca:
+ If we do decide 4 hours per week, we need to put this on the website.
+ We’re not negotiating down. If you have a tough schedule, you can turn up or you can not. We’re trying to make it a lot more accessible and a lot easier to get a taste of it. But at the end of the day, this is our offering.
+ We can add something saying “if this doesn’t work for you, please get in touch with us”

Reem:
+ Agreed, with that wording.

Esraa:
+ Availability should be asked in interview.

Rebecca:
+ Agreed. Like how we ask for the Product Owners for their availability.
+ People will do a lot to change their schedule, if they don’t perceive a choice.

Esraa:
+ Put on website that we have a prep course, but don’t say exactly when.

Rebecca:
+ Once per week for 4 hours. Don’t have to say which dates.

Esraa:
+ Agreed. Also say in the interview.

Mario:
+ Talking to a bunch of locals. Mornings on the weekends would be perfect. Locals here say Saturday.

Suha:
+ Don’t think weekends are a good idea if the local isn’t from Nazareth. Transportation at the weekend isn’t very good. We don’t have enough time.
+ Jewish people might have a problem too.

Mario:
+ Just that locals in this cohort said they prepare in the mornings on Saturday.

Rebecca:
+ I’m open to leaving the day of the week to the time when we meet the students.
+ But is this going to work for mentors?

Reem:
+ People might need transportation.
+ Wouldn’t work for me, at least.

Esraa:
+ Also prefer not weekends.

Rebecca:
+ Mentors may also choose to go on trips on the weekend.

Mario:
+ Is prep course going to run while the course itself is running?
+ In different rooms?

Rebecca:
+ We have access to other rooms. No problem.
+ Any other room with AC.
+ Shouldn’t take much planning. Just practice being a mentor.
+ Is there a day of the week during the course when it would be most appropriate to have a couple of you running this?

Suha:
+ Middle of week. Not Sunday or Thursday.

Esraa:
+ On Monday before C4E?

Rebecca:
+ C4E should be another opportunity for people to come together, more informally.

Suha:
+ Yeah, for example if someone had a problem with the prep course, they have another opportunity, another day to come along.

Rebecca:
+ Wednesday students are more independent.

Esraa:
+ Wednesday you need less mentors in the class. Students are working on their projects. You might have more mentors who could attend.

Rebecca:
+ Are you flexible on the time of day?
+ We could pick one and offering?
+ Could see 5-9pm working well for people who are working during the day. Maybe we just don’t know if morning or evening is better. Do you have a sense of that?

Esraa:
+ Depends. Lots of people are on shift work.
+ Can’t please everyone.

Rebecca:
+ We need to tell people what we want and then work it out.

#### Action points
+ Esraa and Rebecca to collaborate on politically correct wording of offering places to applicants from the West Bank
+ Jen to update PR with new version of application pages on our website, within 24 hours
+ Shireen, Esraa and Suha to translate, once the English copy is approved
+ Prep course to be advertised as 4 hour long sessions
+ Time & day of the week for prep course TBC (Wednesday 5-9pm might fit best for mentor participation, but stay flexible based on applicants)

### Availability for running prep course
Esraa:
+ I would be happy to, if the timings work
+ 9.20 is last bus from Nazareth. 4-8 or 4:30-8:30?

Rebecca:
+ If working on your own projects, you wouldn’t have to cut your projects so short and only do a half day.

Mario:
+ I’m available 24/7 in Nazareth

Rebecca:
+ Willing and able to help prepare and run this?

Mario:
+ Absolutely. Free any time.

Joudy:
+ At 5pm, I am almost certainly available. It depends a lot on how my schedule would be. But in the first 2 weeks of FACN2, I am available all the time if you’ll just warn me beforehand

Reem:
+ Yes. But travel might be tough.

Rebecca:
+ You always have a bunk, Reem.

Reem:
+ Then yeah.

Suha:
+ I can try to make it.

Rebecca:
+ I hear interest from everyone. Would be very helpful if one person is just making sure there are mentors for each week and plans prepared. They don’t necessarily have to come every week.
+ Sounds like Mario might be the one in that position, considering your statement of availability?
+ Keep Dan and I updated, communicating with your Course Facilitator, updating the `master-reference`

Mario:
+ Yep

Rebecca:
+ Great to hear your enthusiasm for this project. Great to hear your availability, Mario.
+ Is everyone else happy with this?

Thumbs up all round

#### Action point:
+ Mario spearheads prep course
  + Organise schedule of mentors to attend
  + Communicate with Gaza & update documentation in `master-reference`

## Outreach
+ How do we communicate to the wider community, the changes to our processes? Wanted to hold interviews before I leave Israel. How do we get the word out to our applicant pool?
+ Happy to put out Facebook ads, letting people know about this support.
+ Deleted previous Facebook posts which communicated the old process, to reduce confusion.
+ What could we do to get the word out?
+ How many people could you find? Minimum 15 people applying.

Esraa:
+ College graduates? We have some connections with colleges, right?

Rebecca:
+ Ort-Braude - I can certainly write to them. They don’t have any speaking slots until November.
+ Don’t know social environment, but does anyone on this call have a connection with them?
+ Key that we communicate the right message. Let’s think about what the key points are that we want to communicate to them.

Esraa:
+ Send email to the contact that you have, that she could send over to the students who are just graduating?
+ An email from the uni about this course, would give a professional air / impact.
+ Students are very active on FB groups.
+ Arab students have separate groups.

Rebecca:
+ Would need your help on that.
+ You get the most play if the moderator posts it for you.
+ Other thoughts beyond Facebook? Or areas you want to return to, to re-advertise this?

Esraa:
+ Advertisements on Afifi’s buses?

Rebecca:
+ Happy to contact Waleed.
+ Not sure it will happen fast enough.
+ On Tuesday, I will have Facebook posts you can copy and translate.
+ Ideally, we want applications to start coming in by this weekend.
+ I’m going to ask Tsofen to help us, and I think they will.

Esraa:
+ They have the same course.

Rebecca:
+ They do, but it’s in the summer.
+ They are partners now, they have to help us.

Esraa:
+ When people hear Tsofen, they hear just one more course. The impression is “...next”, like it’s no big deal.

Rebecca:
+ Even if it’s just advertisement in their groups.
+ I can make something with a picture that says apply to FAC, similar to what I did for C4E. That often shows up better on newsfeeds.

Joudy:
+ What graphic again? What do we need? An appealing application?

Suha:
+ Adding a video?

Rebecca:
+ Could post one of videos from our launch of the product demo?
+ Don’t think we can make something in the time available.
+ Would be good to hire someone to do that as soon as we have funding.

Suha:
+ Happy to help. But I can’t do a video.

Rebecca:
+ Definitely send me pics that you think would be best, from Instagram. I can use something saying “Apply for Founders and Coders”

Suha:
+ From the classroom, or something social?

Rebecca:
+ What would get most attention? What would have worked for you?

Suha:
+ Both?

Mario:
+ Activities from class, activities outside.

Reem:
+ Both aspects of the programme should be included. The social element, and the learning in the classroom.

Rebecca:
+ I’ll create 3.
+ Before we even have the website ready, I would like to see links to the Facebook groups you want to target. If each of you could find 3-5 targets, that you think would be sufficiently different from each other. Nicely, spam them for the next few weeks. Be prepared to re-post a different picture with a slightly different text each time. I can help you with the text and have something ready to go.
+ You may know better than I do, what should be said. But seeing things multiple times is what’s going to get the attention.

Reem:
+ Events on Facebook do get attention sometimes.
+ Not sure how this is going to work. We would have to think what would be included.

Jen:
+ Could do that with C4E. Come along, learn to code, ask any of us about applying.

Esraa:
+ I have been doing that.

Rebecca:
+ Can we make an event that is recurring, that says it’s every Monday?

Suha:
+ Add to the C4E that you can come and learn, but also talk to people about the course.

Jen:
+ FACers with t-shirts in the foreground, people studying in the background. So it’s “these people are the ones you come and talk to”, but it’s not confusing that it’s still a meetup where you learn.

Rebecca:
+ We’ve got some

Joudy:
+ Am I the only one who uses youtube and dailymotion?
+ Youtube is a must and I don’t think FAC is doing a good job in uploading videos there

Rebecca:
+ Joudy, are you happy to take that on?

Joudy:
+ Yes

Rebecca:
+ Don’t limit yourself to Facebook. Think your libraries, mosques, anywhere. Reach out to your social networks.

Esraa:
+ Holding a meetup in Haifa?

Mario:
+ Would it be a C4E?

Rebecca:
+ There’s a bunch of Tech meetups that you can go to in Haifa.

Esraa:
+ Largely Jewish groups.

Rebecca:
+ If you spam all the other groups with an invitation to our meetups?

Mario:
+ My sister… (couldn’t hear)

Suha:
+ Our students have exams now. Maybe we want to think of that before setting a date?

Rebecca:
+ Doesn’t take much time to submit an application. But you’re right.
+ Maybe we could get Microsoft or somewhere to host it. What do you think?

Esraa:
+ Tried twice at a couple of events. My contact was really busy.
+ In Haifa, could attract people who are graduating from Haifa uni. Advertising could be “come to the course & increase job application potential”
+ Problem having the meetup in downtown. Students don’t live there.

Rebecca:
+ Do you want to go to the uni and ask if they can host it there?
+ Or just put your heads together and get back to me in a couple of days?

-- discuss other potential unis --

Rebecca:
+ Would love us to do another meetup in the North and in the centre.

Reem:
+ Place in Haifa called “High Centre”. Organisation for Women called “She Codes” holds meetup there.

Rebecca:
+ We’ve had conversations with that organisation before. Might be better to go directly there.
+ May get more people other than students, if we go outside Tel Aviv

Esraa:
+ Meeting at Hassan’s house.

Rebecca:
+ If he’s willing to host it, that’s great.
+ Need to finalise location by the end of the week
+ Call community centres, schools, etc. Tell them about the opportunities.
+ Need date, location, time that you can attend.
+ Reem, do you want to research further in the North, or is Haifa close enough?

Reem:
+ I think Haifa is close enough.
+ I also just don’t have any ideas.

Rebecca:
+ Please revisit your social networks, with the updated application information. Especially now that it’s going to be less intimidating.

#### Action points:
+ Everyone to list Facebook groups you are going to be posting to & send them to Rebecca
+ Joudy to upload our videos to YouTube
+ Need date, location & time that you can hold a meetup
  + Mario to research venues in Haifa for a meetup & contact Tarquine or Microsoft
  + Suha to research location in the centre, come back with idea in the next couple of days
+ Reem to research further in the North?

## Course Facilitation

Rebecca:
+ If we had our way, Eoin would never have left and would still be there. Working with a lawyer, to find out why his application is held up at the Ministry in Jerusalem. At this point, we don’t know & we want to be transparent about that.
+ Originally, Jen was planning to come for the whole time. Eoin was never going to be for the whole time anyway. We’ve been thrown some challenges, because Jen has broken her leg and can’t travel yet.
+ We want you all to know that it was intended that you have a paid Course Facilitator for the duration of your course. Esraa is taking on work. You are all going to be working on your enormous grad project, which Esraa may be supervising on. He’s is also not available to coordinate on a daily basis.
+ We’re looking for someone to be there for the first 3 weeks. Dan and I will be there for the first 3 weeks, except for week 2 (in Gaza).
+ We may ask one of you to be calendaring, and working closely with Jen.

Jen:
+ End of the week / beginning of next week, after speaking to FAC10

Esraa:
+ 6 locals will be coordinating the first 3 weeks?

Rebecca:
+ If we’re still in this scheduling stand-off, Dan will bear that responsibility
+ Students would be taking on slightly more than they might otherwise have done. But ideally we would have 1 person who will be able to collaborate closely with Jen, and will have Dan there.

Esraa:
+ The one who is going to take the specific responsibility on the first few weeks, can’t be the mentor who is delivering the workshops themself.

Joudy (written via hangouts):
+ I can definitely be in the first 3 weeks every day, consider me

Rebecca lists the mentors who are delivering the first 3 weeks

Esraa:
+ Might be more realistic to share the work between 2 or 3 people.

Rebecca:
+ I’m not sure that rotating this will help too much. We would just like to see if anyone is interested. We don’t expect this to be too much extra work. But it would be good to have one point person for Jen to speak to.

Jen:
+ Don’t be too concerned. I just need someone there to be my eyes and ears, because I don’t want to be making decisions without knowing what’s best for the students.
+ I can absolutely be there to take on tasks like scheduling and documentation remotely. I don’t expect the workload on you guys to be huge. But I do need to communicate with someone who is there with the students, who knows what their journey looks like.

Esraa (phone call breaking up):
+ International students, when they first come here, are a little confused and need to get settled in.
+ Pairing up locals and internationals, the local doesn’t necessarily have full confidence.

Rebecca:
+ Those are exactly the conversations that will need to happen with Jen.
+ I know that clarity would be more helpful. We plan to have it soon.
