## Week 1

November 2, 2017

Facilitator: [@shiryz](https://www.github.com/shiryz)

Minute taker: [@matthewdking](https://www.github.com/matthewdking)

---
### Stop:

#### Github
+ Hasan - this is a joke

#### Talking over someone explaining something
+ Mynah - really hard to concentrate and hear explanations
+ Agreement

**AP - raise hand**

#### Project presentations
+ Haitham - struggled today with presentation felt embarrassed
+ Pavel - better to struggle here it is fine
+ Hasan - don't put pressure on yourself
+ Nick - only going to get better by practising, can prepare more next week
+ Yvonne - more time planning
+ Neil - more about structuring things, look at the requirements and communicate that point well
+ Hasan - its essential to be good at presenting, need this skill for jobs etc
+ Finn - a skill you should learn. It's nice to share what we have learnt

**AP - more time for planning presentations**

#### Using too many disposable cups
+ Sophia - every morning there is a new stack of plastic cups, maybe more people can have reusable water bottles
+ Yvonne - open containers with liquids isn't a good idea with laptops around
+ Nick - is there anywhere to wash cups?
+ Finn - use a water bottle

**AP - get water bottles**

#### Forcing people to write on sgc
+ Ghassan - I have nothing to put on here
+ Shireen - good to share what you think about the week
+ King - useful to document what is happening for curriculum planning
+ Mynah - resistant to these concepts, important to push ourselves to try do these new concepts

---
### Go:

#### Project breaking mood activity
+ Hasan - two days continuous pressure need to break it up a bit, activity in the middle
+ Pavel - people get in the flow of work better to leave in this state
+ Finn - pomodoro timer, helps for quality work give it a go
+ Shireen - can go outside on breaks with the team

**AP - try pomodoro**

#### Monthly team building day
+ Amir - important we work as a team so important to enjoy ourselves together as well

**AP - Amir is going to organise this**

#### Guesthouse lunch
+ Idan - self explanatory, all meet in the guesthouse to eat together
+ Pavel - breakfast as well?
*laughter*
+ Shireen - lunch at the guesthouse together once a week?

**AP - thursday lunch at gh**

#### Music
+ Idan - I like music, background music
+ Hasan - epic symphonies
+ Pavel - different people like different music
+ Neil - not everybody likes this, is there a solution
+ Finn - sometimes just when research or something is on
+ Pavel - headphones?
+ Neil - no music?
+ Mynah - its my work as a musician so when I hear it I have to listen
+ Vered - classrooms and office could be used by a team if they want music
+ Neil - how many people want music?
+ Nick - complicates things can't please everyone

**AP - listen to music in other room**

#### Week 1 research topics
+ Neil - change week 1 research topics, knock on effects on presentations
+ Finn - topics this week weren't that good, don't want to shape the presentations it comes from the students
+ Neil - some people struggle with this
+ Hasan - what should our findings be?
+ King - be more specific about the objectives
+ Nick - I only understood my topics, presentation model didn't work
+ Pavel - whats the purpose of this? Are we learning how to research or learning the content
+ Nick - research to find out about things, I can only understand what other people have researched if the quality of communication of the research is good enough. Structure in how things are presented?
+ Idan - drop in pool and swim, or give guide and learn?
+ King - readme as well plus we are all here to help
+ Amir - I have done research before but I didn't know how to communicate the content
+ Shireen - structure the readme well so understand everything on there
+ Vered - in general if you demo something people will remember it much better

**AP - change week 1 research topics**
**AP - more specfic about exactly what to find out**
**AP - Idan will make a presentation guide**

---
### Continue:

#### Projects
+ Pavel - I really like projects

**Good they happen every week**

---
## Workshops

#### Pair programming ++++++
+ Pavel - it's a good way to get a different perspective, combining thoughts to a better solution
+ Finn - you all liked it but did you use it in the projects?
+ Amir - pairing is better, I learnt faster
+ Pavel - improves quality of knowledge when people ask questions
+ Shireen - use it in your projects
+ Finn - its not optional

#### Accessibility workshop +++ 1/2 ?
+ Hasan - likes the concept shorter time
+ Nick - it could be shorter we were just installing plugins

#### Scavenger hunt -----
+ Ghassan - what did we learn?
+ Shireen - learn how to navigate through github and organisation
+ Sophia - less questions, lots of energy to read a lot of stuff
+ Yvonne - did you find it informative about FAC?
+ Sophia - it did help just too many questions
+ Hasan - more explanation from the start, didn't understand where I was and what I was doing


#### Accessibility challenge +++
_Wiggling fingers_

#### Git workshop +++++++
+ Hasan - very useful, use github all the time
+ Finn - do you think you have the hang of it? DO you want another workshop
+ Nick - another refresher
+ Neil - more screenshots in the workshop?
+ Mynah - really good to have one now we have used them more?
+ Vered - was it clear the workshop should be used in the project?
+ Half and half
+ Sophia - confused about the set up
+ Shireen - raise an issue?

**AP - raise an issue about screenshots on the workshop**

#### Research ++++ ----
+ Shireen - we spoke about this already

#### CSS gallery challenge +++ 1/2 ?
+ Sami - make it responsive? really complicated
+ Nick - really liked it, let us go through it so we have a sense of completion, talked through it for a bit then ran out of time summarise the code and give it to us so we can play with it
+ Shireen - lots of workshops and challenges that we won't get done and see the solution for
+ Finn - we do have the solutions somewhere, mc are just an hour in the morning

**AP - raise an issue about the solution to be added**
