# Week 4 SGC

Facilitator: @yoosefkh
Minute taker: @shiryz

## Action points from last week

* [ ] write an issue about missing class on Naz programme, didn't happen but Dan and Yvonne will open one.
* [x] naming and shaming people who are using laptops during presentations

## Stop

#### Talking/Questions during presentations

* Matt: I think that sometimes questions break the flow of the presentation
* Everyone agrees

#### Talking loud while working in pairs so others could focus

* Sol: too loud and noisy, makes hard to focus
* Yoosef: I think there's a point there, facing the same problem can't focus
* Sol: get distracted easily, so keep quiet
* Mynah: shout to everyone to shut up
* Ryan: clap :clap:
* Mynah: no one will take it personally

_AP_ The shut up method

## Go

#### Music

* Tawfik: Sometimes it gets boring during projects
* some agreement
* Ryan: we just talked about being loud and music doesn't help
* Mynah: the policy is if one person is bothered by it, then no music
* Mynah: you can work in a place that isn't the classroom
* Shireen: if you go to a different a place we can't answer questions
* Matt: office?
* Mynah: the office is in a terrible state, you can go to Liwan/guest house or any other place you like

#### Positive feedback on projects ++++

* Ryan: there is always something good to say, they (another team) should have gotten a better feedback, there is always something good to point out
* Mynah: positive issues?
* Matt: Haydn did it last week and this encouraged us to use the same practices this week
* Ben: positive points annoy me!

#### every project should have a project manager

* Tawfik: every project should have a PM, they will assign other people to issues
* Yoosef: think it's a good idea
* Ryan: as an idea it's not bad, but in the industry you'd need some experience, we are all developers and will not do the best job as managers
* Matt: agree that it would make the flow smoother, it's better if we all take ownership
* Yoosef: we were all looking for you for answers, in the beginning felt like I'm leading and then got lost
* Haydn: in our cohort they brought back the idea of roles, was resistant at the beginning but then enjoyed it, Shireen would love to talk to you about agile
* Mynah: too early in the process, should all be learning how to code, it's about team interaction instead of roles
* Ryan: Do you mean that someone would do backend, css and this kind of split?
* Haydn: it's more about roles in a software team, it doesn't relate necessarily to coding

#### less issues in research -> better research topics

* Ryan: unlike London, we less people and feel like we do half of the work because we're too thinly spread
* Matt: can get rid of the topics we have already covered during the week
* Denis: it'll be nice to have an expert in the room on each topic
* Discussed more in the WSs section

#### Pitching ideas and voting on them, before voting we must search for the ideas we're suggesting

* Suha: we decided on the idea in our team before we searched what works
* Yoosef: agrees

#### social events together

* Matt: should go to dinner together, pub, to haifa, saw a picture of one of the cohorts in Jerusalem
* Ben: plan it
* Matt: when we went to haifa, we told people at the last minute but matybe tell everyone in advance
* Issac: maybe do something every thursday?

## Continue

#### explaining the code

* Suha: in our project we were working on the backend, and the other pair was frontend, it was a god idea to exlain what's going on
* Issac: leave comments

#### pair programming and switching

* Suha: split into sub teams and do pair programming together, switching then was good
* Yoosef: everyone gets to work on everything
* Haydn: It's really important to not get bobbed down in your pair, do it as regularly as you can

#### code along (Intro to node) ++

* Bubbs: more code alongs, the intro to servers really helped me understand how a server works, how it all connects together
* Suha: didn't understand the intro that well
* Matt: everyone codes at different speeds
* Yoosef: not everyone is as fast
* Matt: not every other session should be a code along since not everything is suitable to be done that way

## Workshops

#### Intro to node ++++++

* Denis: excellent, the best of the week
* Jazzy hands
* Denis: explain why we need an else statement
* Suha: it's not clear why we should deploy to heroku (Ghassan's slides)

#### Node girls +++++

* All so Jazzy!

#### ES6 mc -++++

* Split between good and not so good
* Matt: ran half an hour late, hasn't happened before and now realised how important it is to be on time
* Denis: seen a lot of es6 before so wasn't that new
* Issac: not a new subject, it's a challenge
* Ryan: It was challenging to remember the beginning of the week after a whole week
* Reminding Ryan of what happened during the week
* Issac: did anyone find it confusing
* Matt: at the beginning
* Suha: is there a way to convert it automatically?
* Mynah: short answer no, should research it

#### Modularisation mc +++

* Not so much enthusiasm
* Matt: better to have more time on node girls than modularisation

#### Projects +++++

* Ben: Great!
* Suha: Good!
* Matt: the teams were a bit uneven
* Sol: was challenging to some
* Matt: Was more challenging to some than others, 1 team of 2 and a team of 4 is not great
* Denis: limited, creative scope, all you have to do is an autocomplete box, loosening the reigns of the project
* Ryan: Sometimes, the project we have is a particular challenge and teaches you some stuff, in the next projects it's gonna be tougher
* Matt: these projects are for 4 people
* Mynah: Bassam is not gonna be with us anymore, now we have even 3s
* Matt: how will that affect pair programming
* Mynah: one pair of 3
* Issac: does anyone have an idea on how to do the project with a smaller team?
* Ryan: be direct, talk about it, get things working, we tried to get a nice api but we had some time wasted on that, do things as fast as you can and understand what people's strengths are
* Issac: it's not a competition
* Matt: it was more about having a group of 4 and a group of 2 and that made some disparities appear
* Issac: in the real world you might work with 10 or 1 person
* Yoosef: how can we split the work if one person doesn't know something
* Ben: reduce the scope and work with what you can

#### Design burst --+++

* Suha: did not understand it
* Matt: Thought the idea was really good, wednesday is not the best time to show it since everyone wants to work on the project
* Ryan: we must do it
* Denis: we can do it at our own time
* Half of the class is Jazzy, Denis not so happy about it

#### Research --

* Ryan: we're now 9 people,and we should have 3 topics
* Mynah: there are some weeks where we can't drop a topic, will need to see how we'll manage the situation, we'll take it week by week
* Denis: I thought a lot of the research wasn't something new, we've seen all of it already
* Suha: Found it a waste of time when I search for something, maybe you could add some helpful links
* Ryan: Part of the challenge is to know what to use and what not to use, learn how to filter resources
* Suha: Add some resources?
* Mynah: agree with Ryan, you could always get more guidance, but the idea is to learn how to teach yourselves, that is the idea, as a developer you're gonna spend most of the time googling stuff, that is the idea of research
* Ben: They will not do it this time around, we'll do it for the next cohort
* Haydn: DevDocs? has a documentation for everything, you need to get used to reading docs, you will be doing it all the time
